# Designing (Adobe XD)
For information about the initial installation of Adobe XD, please check out the Prerequisites README file. Once you have Adobe XD installed (and logged in to an Adobe account), return here for additional information about setting up and modifying the project!

## Save Downloading
When you initially make your Adobe XD account, you'll need to be granted access to the project via email by Laura. When you do, you should see several different prototypes under the "Shared with you" tab -- named the "EKU+ Cloud - January '25 BETA" and "KYColleges - March '25 KY DEMO". The EKU+ app is final build of the original app created for this project, while the KYColleges project is the most recent college search version we created as a proof of concept. When you first begin to make changes, you should click the **three-dot menu next to the March 2025 demo and create a copy using "Duplicate"**. Then, follow the same naming structure to title it (e.g. "KYColleges - August '25 ALPHA") -- with alpha being the first development version, beta being the second, and demo being any version not intended for public release.

## UI Navigation
From there, if it hasn't already opened the new project, you can double tap it to open. When you do, it'll open to a screen that looks something like [this](https://i.imgur.com/C58mTtk.png) (if this link expires, try [viewing the album](https://imgur.com/a/eUbtQCo) instead), where there are a few key panels/feature that you'll want to keep in mind:

### Design 
The design tab and the left hotbar contain the shapes and basic tools that Adobe XD allows you to use to design new pages (called "artboards"). To create a new one, you can create a copy of a previous page using CTRL+C and CTRL+V or tap "A" (to select the tool that looks like a page, directly above the magnifying glass) and then left click on an empty space. From there, the default tool on the far left hotbar will be select to allow you to modify existing artboards, while the rest will be to create new shapes (from top to bottom: squares, circles, lines, and squiggles) or text boxes! 

Similarly, when you select any artboard or component (e.g. a shape or text box), you should also see an additional display pop up on the right with information about its location, color, scale, and more! This is what you'll primarily need to design new pages, and should be relatively self-explanatory with its item labels. However, if you'd like some more specific information about what each button in this tab does, I recommend taking a look at the tabs under "Design" in the [Adobe XD documentation](https://helpx.adobe.com/xd/help/get-started-with-artboards-in-XD.html)!
> NOTE: When selecting multiple items at once (either by highlighting or holding CTRL/SHIFT), the transform deminsions will reflect the total X, Y, Z values rather than the average. This means that if you're adjusting the scale of several items at once, it is typically better to do so individually, or to ensure that you account for this change in your calculations.

### Prototype
The second tab is for prototyping! With this tab selected, you'll be able to change some basic functionality with how pages interact with each other, and then test to ensure that they look the way you intended with the play feature. To do so, you'll want to select a pre-existing artboard and then look to your right, which will have now been updated to contain the transition time and type. Some transitions can only be used with particular types, but the best looking is typically Auto-Animate or Transition with the default easing and length. For triggers, you'll more than likely want to use "Tap" (as other features can be unreliable), but you're free to use timed pages as well if you only want the viewer to be on a given page for a second or two. 
> NOTE: Additional functionality can be programmed in using ReactJS, so it's recommended not to get overly advanced in the Adobe XD prototype before you can genuinely apply it to the app. If you'd like to program all transitions in ReactJS, you may also want to avoid keeping transitions in XD entirely, and simply deleting them using the BACKSPACE key before you export the prototype.

To run the prototype, you'll need to create or use a pre-existing "Flow", which defines where the app should open from. For the most part, simply selecting the page that you want to start from will work, then you should be able to click the arrow button in the top right corner to play. I'd also recommend checking out the mobile prototype if you have the time, but be warned that it could display differently from the desktop version because of how the software functions. For more information, check out [this link](https://helpx.adobe.com/xd/help/preview-mobile.html)!

### Share
Sharing a prototype will give the people who need to see your project but don't have access in Adobe XD permissions to navigate through it in a web browser like Chrome or Safari! To do so, you'll also need to set up a Flow (or select an existing one), and then click "Generate Link" on your right. In that panel, you'll also see some customizable options about their permissions and who can access this link -- both of which I recommend to setting as "User Testing"/"Development" and "Anyone with the Link" in order to maximize access for those who you send the address to. And, if you'd like, the "Custom" tab also provides some helpful options for ensuring correct access to the prototype, with more information available [here](https://helpx.adobe.com/xd/help/share-designs-prototypes.html).
> NOTE: When you share a prototype on Adobe XD, it does not expire! The users who have access to this link will be able to view that version of the app forever, until you go back and click "Update Link" to give them access to the latest version. At this time, I don't believe there is a way to delete links after they have been generated -- it's thus important to ensure beforehand that no sensitive information is published in these prototypes!
